test/types.coffee.md, before:

    assert = require 'assert'
    describe 'types', ->
      {digits,boolean,array,timezone,language,domain,optional} = require '../types'
      it 'should detect properly', ->
        assert ( digits '12345'             ) , 'digits'
        assert ( not digits '123f5'         ) , 'not digits'
        assert ( not digits null            ) , 'not digits'
        assert ( boolean true               ) , 'boolean'
        assert ( boolean false              ) , 'boolean'
        assert ( not boolean 3              ) , 'not boolean'
        assert ( not boolean null           ) , 'not boolean'
        assert ( optional(digits) null      ) , 'optional digits'
        assert ( optional(digits) '42'      ) , 'optional digits'
        assert ( not optional(digits) true  ) , 'not optional digits'
        assert ( array []                   ) , 'array'
        assert ( array [12,34,56]           ) , 'array'
        assert ( not array true             ) , 'not array'
        assert ( not array null             ) , 'not array'
        assert ( not array {}               ) , 'not array'
        assert ( not array 'foo'            ) , 'not array'
        assert ( timezone 'UTC'             ) , 'timezone'
        assert ( timezone 'Europe/Paris'    ) , 'timezone'
        assert ( not timezone null          ) , 'not timezone'
        assert ( language 'fr'              ) , 'language'
        assert ( language 'en'              ) , 'language'
        assert ( not language null          ) , 'not language'
        assert ( domain '42.local'          ) , 'domain'

Commit message:

[MINOR] add `object` in types

test/types.coffee.md, after:

    assert = require 'assert'
    describe 'types', ->
      {digits,boolean,array,object,timezone,language,domain,optional} = require '../types'
      it 'should detect properly', ->
        assert ( digits '12345'             ) , 'digits'
        assert ( not digits '123f5'         ) , 'not digits'
        assert ( not digits null            ) , 'not digits'
        assert ( boolean true               ) , 'boolean'
        assert ( boolean false              ) , 'boolean'
        assert ( not boolean 3              ) , 'not boolean'
        assert ( not boolean null           ) , 'not boolean'
        assert ( optional(digits) null      ) , 'optional digits'
        assert ( optional(digits) '42'      ) , 'optional digits'
        assert ( not optional(digits) true  ) , 'not optional digits'
        assert ( array []                   ) , 'array'
        assert ( array [12,34,56]           ) , 'array'
        assert ( not array true             ) , 'not array'
        assert ( not array null             ) , 'not array'
        assert ( not array {}               ) , 'not array'
        assert ( not array 'foo'            ) , 'not array'
        assert ( timezone 'UTC'             ) , 'timezone'
        assert ( timezone 'Europe/Paris'    ) , 'timezone'
        assert ( not timezone null          ) , 'not timezone'
        assert ( language 'fr'              ) , 'language'
        assert ( language 'en'              ) , 'language'
        assert ( not language null          ) , 'not language'
        assert ( domain '42.local'          ) , 'domain'
        assert ( not domain '!'             ) , 'not domain'
        assert ( object {}                  ) , 'object'
        assert ( not object null            ) , 'not object'
        assert ( not object 42              ) , 'not object'
